---
title: Full Subject Based Banding
permalink: /programme/full-subject-based-banding/
description: ""
third_nav_title: For Parents
---


### Full Subject-Based Banding (Full SBB)

Bukit Merah Secondary School is one of 30+ secondary schools which will implement Full Subject-Based Banding (Full SBB) from 2023.

#### Purpose of Full SBB

Full SBB is part of MOE’s ongoing efforts to nurture the joy of learning and develop multiple pathways to cater to the different strengths and interests of our students.

By 2024, secondary schools will have implemented the following aspects of Full SBB:

*   Offering of Humanities subjects at a more demanding level from Secondary 2; and
*   Mixed form classes with the provision of a common curriculum.

#### Full SBB in Bukit Merah Secondary School in 2023

<table border="0" style="box-sizing: border-box; border-collapse: collapse; color: rgb(0, 0, 0); font-family: Mukta, sans-serif; font-size: medium; font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures: normal; font-variant-caps: normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing: normal; orphans: 2; text-align: start; text-transform: none; white-space: normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px; -webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px; text-decoration-thickness: initial; text-decoration-style: initial; text-decoration-color: initial; width: 780px; border-color: rgb(0, 0, 0);"><tbody style="box-sizing: border-box;"><tr style="box-sizing: border-box; background-color: rgb(250, 241, 205);"><td width="170" style="box-sizing: border-box; padding: 5px; border: 1px solid rgb(237, 237, 237); width: 207px;"><p style="box-sizing: border-box; text-align: center;"><strong style="box-sizing: border-box; font-weight: bolder;">Aspect of Full SBB</strong></p></td><td width="510" style="box-sizing: border-box; padding: 5px; border: 1px solid rgb(237, 237, 237); width: 572px;"><p style="box-sizing: border-box; text-align: center;"><strong style="box-sizing: border-box; font-weight: bolder;">How will this aspect be implemented?</strong></p></td></tr><tr style="box-sizing: border-box;"><td width="170" style="box-sizing: border-box; padding: 5px; border: 1px solid rgb(237, 237, 237); width: 207px;"><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">Offering of Humanities subjects at a more demanding level from Secondary 2</p></td><td width="510" style="box-sizing: border-box; padding: 5px; border: 1px solid rgb(237, 237, 237); width: 572px;"><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">Currently, secondary school students can offer<span>&nbsp;</span><strong style="box-sizing: border-box; font-weight: bolder;">English Language, Mother Tongue Languages,</strong><span>&nbsp;</span><strong style="box-sizing: border-box; font-weight: bolder;">Mathematics and Science<span>&nbsp;</span></strong>at a more demanding level from the start of Secondary One based on students’ PSLE Achievement Level (AL) for each subject. Beyond the start of Secondary 1, students may also offer these subjects at a more demanding level based on their performance in secondary school.</p><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">&nbsp;</p><p style="box-sizing: border-box;"><strong style="box-sizing: border-box; font-weight: bolder;">Our school will also provide Secondary 2 students the opportunity to take Humanities subjects at a more demanding level, if they meet subject-specific criteria. This is applicable to students who are in the Secondary 2 Normal (Academic) course from 2023, and students who are in the Normal (Technical) course from 2024.</strong></p><p style="box-sizing: border-box;"><em style="box-sizing: border-box;">&nbsp;</em></p><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">The criteria for taking Humanities at a more demanding level will be based on students’ aptitude for and interest in these subjects at Secondary 1.&nbsp;They should also possess positive attitude towards learning and strong commitment to offer the subject at a more demanding level.</p><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">&nbsp;</p></td></tr><tr style="box-sizing: border-box;"><td width="170" style="box-sizing: border-box; padding: 5px; border: 1px solid rgb(237, 237, 237); width: 207px;"><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">Mixed form classes with the provision of a common curriculum</p></td><td width="510" style="box-sizing: border-box; padding: 5px; border: 1px solid rgb(237, 237, 237); width: 572px;"><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">Our school will implement mixed form classes starting from the<span>&nbsp;</span><strong style="box-sizing: border-box; font-weight: bolder;">Secondary 1 cohort of students entering our school in 2023.</strong></p><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">&nbsp;</p><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">The 2023 cohort of Secondary 1 students will be grouped in mixed form classes, comprising students from different courses of study. Mixed form classes present more opportunities for students to interact with other students taking different subject combinations, and with different strengths and interests.</p><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">&nbsp;</p><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">In their mixed form classes, students will take a set of subjects at a common level, amounting to about one-third of curriculum time. This would allow students in mixed form classes to spend curriculum time together in these subjects.</p><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">&nbsp;</p><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">These subjects are:</p><ul style="box-sizing: border-box;"><li style="box-sizing: border-box;">Art</li><li style="box-sizing: border-box;">Character and Citizenship Education</li><li style="box-sizing: border-box;">Design and Technology</li><li style="box-sizing: border-box;">Food and Consumer Education</li><li style="box-sizing: border-box;">Music</li><li style="box-sizing: border-box;">Physical Education</li></ul><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">&nbsp;</p><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">Teachers will adopt a range of teaching approaches to meet the different learning needs and pace of their students in the same form class.</p><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">&nbsp;</p><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">English Language, Mother Tongue Languages, Mathematics, and Science will continue to be offered at Express Level, N(A) Level, and N(T) Level. The criteria for taking these subjects at a more demanding level from the start of Secondary One is based on students’ PSLE AL Score for each subject. Students will be grouped in different classes based on their subject level for each subject.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

For more information on Full SBB, visit [www.moe.gov.sg/microsites/psle-fsbb](http://www.moe.gov.sg/microsites/psle-fsbb).

For more information on how our school will be implementing Full SBB, you can contact us at [bmss@moe.edu.sg](mailto:bmss@moe.edu.sg).